In this hands-on activity,
we'll be performing word count on
the complete works of Shakespeare.
First, we will copy the Shakespeare
text into the Hadoop file system.
Next, we will create a new
Jupyter Notebook, and
read the Shakespeare
text into a Spark RDD.
We will then perform WordCount
using map and reduce,
and write the results to HDFS and
view the contents.
Let's begin.
In the intro to big data course,
we copy the Shakespeare text into HDFS.
Let's see if it's still there.
If not, we can copy it now.
Click on the terminal icon
at the top of the toolbar.
Now we can run hadoop fs- ls to see what's
in our hadoop filesystem directory.
There are no files in HTFS,
so let's copy it.
If you already have words.txt in your HTFS
directory, you can skip this next step.
Cd into downloads,
big-data-3/spark-wordcount.
We can do ls to see the file.
Let's copy this file to HTFS.
We run Hadoop,
fs copy from local, words.txt.
We can write Hadoop fs -ls again
to verify that the file is there.
Now let's do work count in spark.
We will do this in an iPython
notebook using Jupyter server.
Look on the web browser icon,
the top of the toolbar.
And go to the Jupyter server URL,
which is local host port 8889.
Next, let's create a new iPython notebook
The first step is to read the words.txt
files in HTFS into a spark RDD.
We'll call the RDD, lines.
We can read it using the spark context SC,
in calling the text file method.
The argument is the URL of
the word set TXT file and HDFS.
Let's run this We can
view the contents of this RDD
by calling lines.take(5).
The argument 5 says how many
lines to show of the RDD.
Next, we'll transform this RDD
of lines into an RDD of words.
We'll say, words = lines.flatmap,
lambda line:
line.split Double quote
space double quote.
This creates a new RDD called, words,
by running flatMap over the line RDD.
The argument is this lambda expression.
A lambda in Python is a simple way
to declare a one line expression.
In this case,
there's one argument called line and
we called it split method on this line and
we split on spaces.
We can run this and
look at the contents of words.
We can see that each element
now is an individual word.
Next, we'll create tuples of these words.
We'll put them in a new RDD called tuples.
Enter, tuples
= words.map:lambda
word; (word, 1).
This creates the tuples
by transforming words.
This uses map and another lambda function.
In this case, the lambda takes
one argument and returns a tuple.
Where the first value of
the tuple is the word.
The second value, is the number 1.
Not that in this case, we use map,
whereas before, we used flat map.
In this case, we want a tuple for
every word in the words.
So we have a one to one mapping
between inputs and outputs.
Previously, while we were splitting lines
into word, each line had multiple words.
In general,
you want to use map when you have a one to
one mapping between inputs and outputs.
In flatMap you have a one to many or
none mapping between inputs and
outputs Let's run this and look at tuples.
We can see that each word now has
a tuple initialized with the count of 1.
We can now count all the words by
combining or reducing these tuples.
We'll put this in a new RDD called counts.
So we'll say counts equals
tuples.reduce by key.
Lambda a,b:.
a + b.
In this case, the lambda function
takes two arguments, a and be, and
will return the result of adding a and b.
To view the result,
You can see now that the counts for
each words have been created.
We can write this result back to HDFS.
Let's say
counts.coalesce(1).saveAsTextFile,
and then the URL.
The coalesce means we only
want a single output file.
Let's go back to our shell and
view the results.
We'll run hadoop fs -ls
to see the directory.
And run it again to look inside
the wordcount directory.
And once more,
to look inside wordcount/outputDir.
As you recall,
the output from hadoop jobs is part-0000.
This is also true for spark jobs.
Let's copy this file to
the local file system.
We'll run hadoop fs CopyToLocal
wordcount/outputDir/part-00000.
You can view the results with more.